So thank you so much for having me. I'm located in Halifax, Nova Scotia, where it's
quite beautiful here today. And what I'm going to sort of talk about is about security and how to
kind of like approach building, like getting your data scientist to work on data in a secure
environment interfacing with those other parts of the company. And one of the sort of things I
was thinking about while I was sort of trying to figure out what to say about this is that there's
not really a kind of right answer in terms of what level of security you need for any of these
systems. So these are kind of like general strategies, very general strategy, I think
the particular things you need to do, like, we need this kind of authentication, or the data
needs to be stored in this way or tracked in some fashion, are going to be individual to
the place that you work. So this is kind of more about like, how do you work with the people
and systems at your company? And how do you set those things up to be successful?
So this is my lovely stove picture. And things over. So a little bit about Socure. So Socure
is an identity company. So we build basically models and data products that help people
identify fraudsters. So whenever you apply for like a bank or a credit card,
you, your bank sends your information to either a company like ours, or another model,
or another or an internal model to sort of check like, are you really who you say you are? This is
for regulatory reasons to make sure that people aren't like wandering money. It's also for just
loss prevention, like fraud costs companies a lot of money. So they try to do things that
produce that that reduce fraud. And, and we're the best at that. So we have some of the best
products in these markets. And a lot of that has to do with the fact that we've kind of from the
start, set up systems where we're able to confidently work with very, very sensitive data
of various different kinds and segregate data that's more sensitive from data that's less
sensitive. And using those kind of data assets, we're able to build these kind of
pretty wonderful models. We're also going through a period of very, very fast growth.
So we're a revenue is basically growing, but depending on how you count revenue,
one and 200% year over year, we started the year 120 people are probably going to be growing to
about 500 people at the end of this year. So we're hiring. If you're, if you are interested
in this area, it's it's rewarding, and a wonderful place to work. And so this is put all this puts a
lot of pressure on security. And because the kind of ways you have to think about security,
when you're growing this fast, are slightly different from the ways that you can think
about security at a larger company, just because, you know, if you sort of imagine, like, so I
started at secure two years ago, and I'm one of the more senior people there, right? So all the people
who joined after me have like less context about, you know, why do we have things set up this way?
What are the risks? What's the threat model, all those different things. But I found it really
helpful environment to sort of learn this stuff. Because I think if you can kind of build secure
systems at these sort of like, fast growing company places, it really helps to think about
how to make them work at all different types of companies. But so that's just a little bit of
context. So I want to sort of talk about what I sort of think of as the bad place, the security
bad place that a lot of places find themselves in. And this is kind of the basic conflict between data
scientists, and really everybody else. But you can see a similar conflict occurs between like,
you know, salespeople and security people, some degree like engineers and security people,
but definitely data scientists and security people, it's the worst. And the basic conflict
is that the safest way to deal with sensitive data is to just delete it, right? To not use it,
if you can't delete it, you want to make sure that you don't give anybody access to it.
And if you can't give, you can't prevent people from accessing it all, you want to have like a
small number of people. And it has to be really, really annoying to access, right? So other kind of
like the from a security perspective, that's a hierarchy of data safety, right? And as soon as
you have somebody who's actually like, I'm going to go open up a data set and look at, you know,
the emails or look at the name. That's a kind of like security nightmare for people. But from a
data science perspective, like there's a lot of insight that you're getting from that data that
you actually do need to look at the data. So for example, if we have like fraud, fraudster,
a fraud ring coming in, they might have like a particular email pattern, which we don't know
about until you actually kind of look at that, those, those, those scores, you look at them and
say, like, okay, like, what are the emails that are, you know, causing us to decide this person
is fraudulent? Like, you know, how does what does that make sense? At some point, you maybe can build
an automated system to detect that pattern. But at some point, data scientists do need to actually
like be able to look at the data in some environment, right? So what I've noticed
that happens with security is security groups, I'm just going to refer to that as security,
like, so this is maybe like compliance people, security engineers, you know, the people who are
there to try to make sure that your company doesn't get hacked. And you know, your employees
don't leave, you know, their laptops at, you know, at coffee shops with precious information on them.
You know, so security, like, they'll come into a situation, and they'll try to fix something
that's broken. That's an old system that was set up some way that, you know, maybe
it was good at the time, or maybe it was just never thought about, but it's some battle system.
And they'll say, like, look, this is a big, you know, problem, right? Like,
this could be an attack here, we got to fix this, right? But in order to fix, they have to
direct money from new projects to fix the old ones. And usually, like, in most companies, like,
the groups that are responsible for security don't actually have the power to direct resources like
that. And so they have to sort of try to have this fight between like the value that these new
things will do versus fixing the old ones. And oftentimes, they don't get their way and
that old fix doesn't happen. But the power that security does always have is the power to veto
new things, right? So when a new project comes in, it usually goes through a security review,
and if it fails, it doesn't get put in place, right? So you have this situation where, like,
the company can't fix the old security problems, but then can also put in new systems in place
because they get vetoed, right? And this is kind of like on some level, like, the second,
the third one is sort of like, partially, I think, an emotional reaction to the second one,
like people didn't feel heard about the big problems. So they maybe like enforce those
policies, like too strictly for some new systems. Everybody thinks that the other side is unreasonable,
like, so the data scientists feel like security is just putting roadblocks, like needless roadblocks
in their place. And they're like, this is way safer than the old thing that we were doing. So
why not do this new one? Security thinks that the rest of the business doesn't care about security.
And then everybody just stops talking. So I think this is really common. And it's worth knowing that
even if this isn't like a real problem at your business, most of the people who are coming into
that business have had experiences at other companies that are like this. So like most,
pretty much all the security people I know, have had situations where they were like, I was at this
other job. And there was this like, giant, you know, giant fire of a bad system that never got
fixed. And it was so frustrating. And I left, right. So they're kind of carrying that from
from job to job. And data scientists often feel like we can do, we've had all these experiences
where it's like, I could do so much, produce so much value, but I just can't get access to the
data that I need to actually produce that value. So that's the bad place. So this is a really big
problem, because it's sort of all of the friction of a high security environment with none of the
security. Because all of these kinds of hacks or security issues, they're adversarial, usually,
so somebody is looking for the weak link in your company's armor. And it really doesn't matter
if you have a 40% of your systems are secure, or 90% of your systems are secure, because they
will tend to find the holes, right? So that so you kind of want to always focus your energy on like
lifting the floor of your business rather than having like some small number of things that are
like super duper secure. The analogy that I kind of use for this is like, if all of your windows
in your house are open, you know, it doesn't really matter if you walk the door, right? Like
that somebody a burglar is going to like just go through the window. And so you get this sort of
system where you're like, you've put in a lot of friction, like a lot of fights, your business
can't move very quickly, but you haven't really gained that much in terms of security overall,
overall. So as a data scientist, you can help with this problem by kind of trying to understand and
like being intentional about being an ally to the security parts of your organization.
Because oftentimes, when you're when I like decision makers are hearing security issues from
several different places in the company, they're much more likely to be fixed. So if it's not just
coming from the people who are kind of always bringing up security issues, you know, like if
it's coming from somebody else as well, like that's a really powerful way of making progress on these
things. And the something that's helped me think about this is just to sort of like think about
the mindset of somebody who is whose job it is to identify low probability risks at a business,
right? And so this is kind of they live in this like lonely, anxious world, like they're often
saying no to awesome stuff. Everybody else is like, this would be so awesome. And then the
security person is like, No, we're not doing that. That would be awful. And there's also just
this a lot of anxiety, right? Like they don't get any positive feedback, right? It's like nothing
happens. It's not because they're like, Oh, this is I did such a great job, right? It's just like,
there's I'm just constantly worried about these small, low probability things that will happen
that all have missed that will sink the business, right? So it's a really like, high anxiety
workplace. So it's kind of like, understanding that and, and, like, putting yourself in that
mindset when you're talking to people in security is really helpful. Because you can kind of sort of
like, talk about like, you know, like, basically just sort of like, not think of that they're
being ridiculous, right? Like, it's often something where it's like, the thing that seems to you as
being like overly strict is often because like, when you're spending your time thinking about
these, you know, things that happen 100 times, but that are really tragic. It's, you're sort of
more likely to find those things and think that they're important. And another good thing to do
is just to talk about security projects. So pretty much everywhere that I've worked,
there's a list of things where it's just like, you know, these are important security projects
that we have not done, because for whatever reason, they just haven't gotten, you know,
gotten to the top of the pile. Because there's always new things going on the top of the pile,
and they kind of get worse and worse over time. So being somebody who's kind of just like, not
part of that security organization, but is just like aware of those issues and continues to bring
them up over and over and over again, helps the rest of the like, compliance security teams
sort of realize that you're on their side when you're talking about building any of these systems.
And then do things like sort of have one on ones with people just sort of talk to them about
like their job, what they're what they're working on, develop those things. And then the last one,
which I think is really important is that prove that you can make progress on these things,
like so that prove, prove to security, that you have a data scientist who's handling this stuff,
can push these things through and accomplish them, you can start with small little things
that are like security, bad practices on the data science team, like improving those a little bit
and being able to demonstrate that is really important. Why is that important? It's important,
because when you're setting up a system, it allows you to make promises to security and
compliance groups, and have them believe you. So you can say, like, we're putting this in place
now, because it's better than what we had before, here are the three or four things we'd like to
improve over the next six months. And if you don't do this, where you kind of like demonstrate over
and over again that you're going to like move that security ball forward, they're going to say
no, like, we have to do everything that we all the requirements today on day one.
Because I don't trust that you're going to actually do what you say you're going to do in
terms of of delivering on these patches, basically. So if you kind of do all that, like, and sort of
start thinking of yourself, and maybe this is like a whole data science team, or maybe it's like a
couple of people on that team. So at SoCure, this is something that I've done, basically as kind of
like a liaison between the big group of data scientists and the big group of security people.
So now, basically, like those groups don't feel like they need to talk to each other as much,
like they both can talk to me and my team. And we can sort of translate and be like, you know,
like, have the context of what the data scientists are trying to do, have this context of what the
security people are trying to do, and be able to, like, find the sort of solution that kind of like
works for both groups. But once you kind of do that, it sort of unlocks a lot of the rest of it.
But if you can't get out of that bad place, you're not going to be able to develop things
that are very secure, in my experience, you're also not going to be able to develop things that
are amenable to really productive data science work. So this is like, I know, this is a little
funny, spend 10 minutes to talk about, like, you should be friends with your co workers,
but I work in a tech company. So it's important to do that. Okay, so the thing once you kind of
have that relationship, like, I think it's important to come up with just a list, like an
ordered list of security priorities as they relate to data science. And this is, it's important to do
that. And to kind of like, think about this as a, like, just to speak in a real basic language,
because a lot of times, like, people who work in security don't really have a good sense of like,
what it is that data scientists do. And like, what, like, what do you do day to day, right?
Like the programming that data scientists do is very different from the programming that you would
do as a, like an application software engineer. It's much more like a process of discovery than
it is a process of implementation, a lot of those different things. And then these two things that I
would really highlight are to precisely articulate the business value of the data science work.
And this is, at SoCure, like, this is kind of easy on one level, because, you know, we're a
data science company, all we sell are statistical models, basically. So there's, we can sort of say,
in general, like, you know, our work is valuable to the company, it's the main product that we sell.
But being really precise about it helps to narrow down, like, what kind of data access you need. So
when you're more precise about the business value that you're producing, you might, you might sort
of say, like, okay, well, actually, like, I can get that same business value with, you know,
10% of the people, only 10% of the people having access to this sensitive data, or I can get that
same business value with the same sort of, like, productive velocity, if I'm, you know, using,
like, this kind of environment versus this other one. But being really, really sort of,
like, specific about, like, why do you need to access this data? Like, why does it, like,
why do you need to do that? What's the value that that particular piece of access provides to the
to the company, helps you sort of narrow things down, and also, like, convince people that
that access is worthwhile, right? If you can sort of say, like, look, here's the business value that
this access grants us, you're going to have a lot better time getting that access. An example of
this is sort of say you have, like, a database that has intermingled data that's, like, sensitive
and not sensitive, and most of your business value might be accessing the non-sensitive data. But
since you only have the one database account, right, like, you can, you kind of, by accessing
the non-sensitive data, you might also be exposing the sensitive data. So that's an example of
something where you're, like, okay, if we, like, split that data apart, you know, so that we put
the sensitive data in a whole other place, you're able to be more, like, just even, like, you're,
the data scientists are doing the same amount of work, same positive stuff, they're just, like,
the collateral access is lower. Similarly, from the security side, get them to purchase, precisely
articulate the threat model that they're worried about. And this kind of goes back to that sort of,
like, vague anxiety that people have, which is, like, you just have this vague anxiety of stuff,
and then you just veto things, because you're just, like, I'm just anxious, I don't want,
I don't want any kind of breach. But when you sort of are, like, more intentional about, like,
what kinds of attacks are we trying to prevent, you have a better chance of kind of, like, right-sizing
the security access. So an example of this is, like, you know, you might worry about mistake
from your company, like, you don't want your employees making a mistake and putting a file
in some place that they shouldn't be putting it. Or you might worry that they're malicious,
that your employees are actually going to try to steal this data from you and sell it to somebody
else, right? Those are very, very different threat models. And if you, and the systems that you're
going to design that are going to be good for the first one are not going to be good for the second
one. And oftentimes, like, when security groups will have, like, some internal version of that,
but getting them to tell you that so that in a way that you can understand and communicate to
the rest of the people who work with you is going to help you get buy-in from data scientists to
use those systems, and also just sometimes give you an opportunity to kind of argue back a little
bit about what you really need to do. And then the sort of goal of this is just, like, an ordered
list of, like, these are the big security problems that we have, and we're going to try to go down
this list from top to bottom and fix them. And you might be in terms of priority, you might also
include some things like how easy are these things to do or not. But coming up with this thing where
everybody's agreeing these are the main things, and then that's where we're going to try to put
our energy towards to raise the floor for your security thing rather than trying to fix the
new ones is really helpful. Okay, so that's all kind of like prologue. These are my three principles
for building secure systems. One is childproof rooms. Second one is developer experience is a
security problem. And third one is to buy things and not build them. Let's talk about childproof
rooms. This is my daughter's playroom. And this is kind of, like, I feel like the perfect analogy
for what you want to do with data scientists, especially new data scientists who are just
joining your company. You want to give them a place that has all of their stuff that is really
nice, and that they can't, like, burn your house down, right? And so it's a place where you can,
like, just say, like, go play, you know, like, go do your thing in here. And I will make sure I will
do the work to make sure that this room as a whole is safe, so I can, like, you know, go cook
dinner or something like that. But all your books are in here, all your toys are in here, you know,
it's got all the CPU and RAM that you need, you know, and you can sort of go nuts. So they're
really, like, places where people can't hurt the company. And this is the only way that you can
onboard people quickly and have it be safe, because there's no way that a new employee
in their first month of work is going to be able to understand, like, the security and regulatory
environments that SoCure operates in. Like, the only way that we're going to be able to get them
to abide by those policies is if we kind of make the situation, the environment that they're in,
enforce those policies. So this kind of means that when you embed, put those secure things
inside the system that you're building, you don't have to tell people about it as much,
right? Because it's just, like, that's just what it is. You don't tell people that the,
you know, like, that, like, it's kind of like, I don't know, whenever you go into, like, a really
well designed, like, hospital or something like that, like, how you use these various different
things is obvious, like, there's only one natural way of doing it. And that's kind of what you're
going for. You don't want to have a situation where you're basically, like, having people read
100 page policy documents and expecting that they're gonna abide by them. Nobody can do that.
And definitely new people can't. So if you're, like, so if you think about, like, our stuff,
like, we're going to be, if we have, like, 100 people starting in the next three months,
we're not going to be able to teach them how security works, like, we're going to be able to
build a system such that they can just drop in there and work and it is secure,
we're confident about that. But, but there's no way for it to, there's no way to do this without,
like, having this thing be kind of like, childproof, you know, like, it's not, it's something
where they don't need to be a grown up person at a company, they can just go for it as a toddler.
So the next one is this idea of that developer experience as a core security problem. And so
this is something that I think is not well understood by people who work in security
in their day to day. Because people who work in security come from a model where it's just like,
it's kind of like a police model or a legal model, where it's like, I'll just say what the law is,
right? Like, I'll put some policy out, I'll say what the law is, and then everybody's just going
to do that. Right? And like, we have, like, you know, we have really smart, thoughtful employees,
like, they understand that they're supposed to be following the rules. So like, they'll just,
they'll just do what I what we tell them to do. And there'll be some email that goes out,
everybody will read that email, everybody will understand it, everybody will be able to apply
it to their experience. And, you know, like, they'll just do the right thing.
But that's not exactly, that's not what happens. Because it turns out that like, you just don't
have the enforcement mechanisms for those policies. So they're, once your company gets even
a little bit big, you're not able to really audit what exactly everybody is doing. And all of the
people who you've hired are like, you've hired them because they're like really clever with computers.
And people who are who are really clever with computers can like sort of subtly circumvent
things that they even if they might not know that they're not supposed to be doing something,
they might kind of know that they shouldn't do it. But it's like some really urgent project,
and they've got to just get something out the door. Right? Like people will always sort of
like end up taking some little shortcuts around, around something that they find burdensome,
right? So if the thing that is secure, is also like a pain to use, difficult, unappealing,
some people are going to not use it. And that's all you really need is like some people not using
a secure process. So you can either make it so that it's like it's impossible for them to do
the wrong thing, like you've put up like big walls, or you can sort of understand their motivation,
which is that they want to get their work done as easily as possible. And so if you assume that
they're going to do the easy thing, right, and you can make the right thing easy, then you can
have some confidence that they're going to tend to do the right thing, right? Like, if you make it
like put up some roadblocks around make it super irritating to do some process that you think is
insecure, and then also give them a really, really convenient way of doing this more secure process,
you're going to have a lot of success with adoption. And I actually think from a security
perspective, adoption is one of the big problems is just actually like getting people to do the
thing. And and getting them to not like push back on it. So like, if you're trying to get something
in place, you do often have to actually go through someone who is saying like, who is listening to
their their teammates to say, like, you know, is this actually going to be workable? If it's not
workable, they'll kind of like escalate it and have some fight about whether they should put
it in place. But if you kind of make it so that it's both easy and secure, you just avoid that
whole conflict. And, and it makes the makes it a lot easier to get these things out the door.
So the ways that I've used to build good developer experiences for, for secure projects,
the first one, I think is really, really crucial is to control the client libraries.
So we have an internal a set of internal R packages, a set of internal Python packages,
and, and they're great to use, they've gotten good adoption. And so what that means is that we can,
we basically have a layer of abstraction between the user and however, that's interfacing with
some kind of back end system. So we might have like some function that we have a function,
for example, that connects to a database. This function has been around in that package for
years, right? But over the over my history there, I think we probably changed some mechanism of how
that database connection works, maybe seven or eight times, right? And that's just like, like
iterative things where it's just like, okay, like, we're gonna, you know, do credentials in a
different way, we're gonna like use some other, you know, tokens, whatever, to make that that
access more secure. And the users never knew, right? Like, it's because it's just basically
like, we've thought about their experience. And like, part of their experience is like,
they should never have to learn a new database connection algorithm. Like, they shouldn't need
to know how AWS, like, access tokens work. That's not something that's relevant to their job.
Like, they just want to connect to the database. And so since we control the clients, we can make
those changes, we can first of all, like promise the security, like, this is how everybody is
connecting to these databases, like, here's the state of the world right now. We can tell them,
like, if you make this change, it'll I'll be able to push that out, you know, in however long a week
or a day or something. And we can guarantee that once we make that change, everybody is going to
be on the same page. And there's not going to be any user disruption, because we can we know,
like the scope of that, basically the promise that we're making to the user about like what
those things should do. So the next thing is to like, think about security from like a product
sales perspective, like you're actively selling the product to the user, even if at some point,
you're going to be able to be basically say, like, you know, like, we're not asking anymore,
right? Like, this is just the rule, like, you know, we're going to do it this way.
Then it's just, that's how it's going to happen. But to start with actually thinking of it more
like you're selling a product. And one of the ways of selling secure systems that's really helpful
is to say is that most data scientists who work on sensitive data, it just is like, freaky,
like, it's just you do not want to do it, it makes you really nervous, you're worried about
leaving it somewhere, you're worried about making a mistake, right? And so if you sell them and say,
like, look, if you start using this system, like you don't need to worry about those mistakes
anymore, like the system will handle it for you. Right? So even if it's like maybe a little bit
less convenient to use, you know, like, at least you're sort of like selling to them saying like,
you know, like, you can relax in this environment, you know, because it's because it's the whole
thing is more secure. One of my first data science jobs was working on youth criminal
justice data in front of the Nova Scotia government. And it was, it was actually under
like an air gap. So I had to like work on this, like, on this, like, like no internet connection
computer with like no R libraries. And on some level, it was like really irritating. But on the
other level, I was like, I was like, Oh, I'm kind of so happy to just like be here and not have to
worry that I'm going to like leave this, you know, like send it like accidentally email a file and
then go to jail, right? Like, so there's some level of just like comfort of having something
that's secure. And so but if you approach it as like, you know, like security is just like making
us do this terrible thing, right? Like, you're going to get a lot of pushback, and you're going
to get a lot of people who are going to find problems with it rather than helping you make
the system delightful and better. But if you kind of think about it from the start, it's like,
you know, we have these security things that we're all care about, and we want to move those forward.
And here's the value that you're getting personally that the business is getting.
It helps you kind of make progress with this. The third one is to pair restrictions with power.
So this is kind of like always ship security things with functionality. And this helps a
lot, right? Like, so if you give people something where it's just irritating, right, like they're
going to be irritated. So you give them something where there's irritation and like something that
they really want together in some in one release. It helps kind of make the medicine go down,
you know, to have something that's like some new functionality, new capacity that's going with it.
And the last one is it looks really matter. So whenever you're building a secure system,
one of the most neglected things is user experience and design. And so spending a bit
of time just saying like, you know, we're building a secure web application, like let's, you know,
let's do a sprint with, you know, a UX designer, and like somebody to make this look nice, right?
But somebody to make this kind of feel snappy, right? One of the ways that I've kind of personally
worked on this a lot is, you know, we replace the number of kind of like reporting functionalities
that were a little not secure enough with some shiny applications. And the focus on that is
basically just like, it's important to make that application look good, even if it's there's no
security benefit at all to that. But it's just something that again, like thinking about this
as an external product that you're selling, you want to make sure that everything is kind of like
pleasant to be around, you know, like fast enough, snappy enough, responsive, doesn't crash. And then
just like, you know, it doesn't look like a GeoCities website from 1992. They even have websites
in 1992. I'm not sure. Okay, so I have a little instrument for a case study about our dear host,
which is RStudio Connect. So we implemented RStudio Connect to host shiny applications.
And what we kind of discovered, basically, like I was putting together a way of hosting shiny
applications using like Docker. And as part of this, I went to a, so when this went through a
security review, and it was vetoed, basically, because it was not that didn't fulfill a bunch
of security requirements. And I didn't have the skills to put those requirements in place myself.
And this was kind of one of those cases where it was like the new system got the heavy security
scrutiny. And even though it was, it was probably a step forward, from a security perspective,
it wasn't quite far enough in terms of getting to where we wanted to go.
So we also realized that as we were doing this, that we could like, you know, so RStudio Connect
like gave us that authentication that we needed, gave us the logging, tracking, auditing capabilities
that we needed to host shiny applications. But then as we were kind of using it, we were like,
oh, we can replace a lot of different things with this. Like, there's a lot of ways that we're
communicating what we call like company confidential information, which is not PII, but is,
you know, like things that are our personal IP that we're worried about being out in the world.
And we realized we could sort of like replace a lot of those things with hosted R Markdown or
different things like that. So it was also something that we could childproof, right,
like we can build clients to maybe allow things on, you know, one environment and not allow them
on RStudio Connect. We can put on like network level controls over what RStudio Connect can talk
to in the rest of SoQ systems. So it let us sort of put something up where it's like, look, if you
are, you know, hosting something here, you know, it's going to like be safe, safe enough. And it's
going to be like safe and you're not going to hurt anything. And it also kind of like let us build
this environment where like data scientists could deploy things. And we knew that that was OK,
right. So like this has happened a lot with so many things I've done a number of times is like
have so our package has like it doesn't have a lot of security in terms of who is able to
download and install our package. It doesn't have any sensitive things in it. But one of the ways
is we have like functions that will like refer to a pinned file on RStudio Connect or refer to an
API that's hosted on RStudio Connect. And so there we have like user authentication on those
files or APIs. So somebody can use a function from the R package and it'll basically like behave
differently, basically like pick up who is that person and kind of reference these like, you know,
connect products. And we know that all those products are OK because the whole system has
been kind of verified and hardened. So we're able to, you know, host the different things that we
kind of use on that system without needing to worry about without needing to worry too much
about like the individual products don't need to be audited. Individual products don't need to go
through a compliance review every single time because it's kind of gotten this whole environment
has been lost basically. And then the last one is or the second last one is it paired restrictions,
which is like you're not allowed to email the stuff anymore, like you're not allowed to
you have to share it using this way that we can track who's looking at every single document if
we need to with power. You know, it's like reproducible. It's you can schedule things,
you know, that kind of stuff. So that led people like people didn't really notice the restrictions
because we were giving them something that was so much more powerful and more convenient in terms of
their work. And then the last one is that it's just easy to use and pretty.
And so this was something that like when we were looking at it, like that's not a security
thing. Like that wasn't why we bought it. Like we didn't we didn't buy it from a hosting shiny
applications. Like I just needed something that would authenticate people and log them. Right.
There's lots of different ways that we could have done that. But this was one that kind of
like did a bunch of other stuff and also had a really, really pleasant developer experience.
And that has been very successful in terms of people naturally want to use it.
And so that means that they're naturally not doing the other stuff that's not approved that
we don't know about. OK, so the last thing I want to talk about was buying software,
and I wanted to talk about I wanted to give you an economic argument about why buying software
is always better from a security perspective. And this is an argument that you can use to
get licensing money from your company. So at most companies, security is a cost center.
What a cost center is something the company needs to spend money on,
but doesn't make revenue based on in the short term. So like you need to spend money on an office
space or you used to. You don't directly make money on that office, the office building,
right? You make money on the stuff that happens in that office building. And different companies
have different parts of their business are cost centers, different parts of revenue centers.
But for most of us who work like so secure doesn't make secure systems, right? Like we make
money off of our models and like the security stuff to make sure that we can develop those
models safely and we don't have a breach. We don't like like for ethical and business reasons,
we don't want to have that happen. That's a cost. It's an important cost. It's one we're happy to
pay, but it's a cost. So every business or almost every business is going to go through rough times
where they don't have enough cash flow. And in those times they were going to cut costs.
They're going to neglect cost centers and they're going to put money into revenue centers. So the
place that actually puts money on the balance sheet. And they'll do this even if it's in the
long run, bad idea. Like even if it's a long run mistake to cut those cost centers, like cut those
security people, cut those DevOps people. When you're kind of get in a threatening economic
situation or threatening business situation, you just need to put revenue back on the business.
You need to get it back into the black. So you'll tend to neglect cost centers.
So while security is a cost for you, for the vendor, it is a revenue center. So if Databricks
or Studio is thinking about like, should I invest in wrapping this brand new awesome security
protocol? If they do that, there's going to be some customer out there who's going to buy their
product because they did that. So they're going to put money and stuff into that thing, even in
times where their business is difficult. Because that's a big part of what the product is that
they're selling. They're selling something that is secure, something that is compliant,
something that works for all these companies that they're trying to sell to. So whenever you buy
software or licensed software, you're basically moving security from living in your cost center
world to being in the revenue center of your business. Because you're kind of like offshoring
it to some degree. So a little bit, it's like a maintenance commitment to the future about we're
going to keep this up to date. We're buying the software now, we're also committing to paying
license fees for the next however long we use this thing. And that's kind of like putting a little bit
of money every year into that system getting better and more secure. So this is really important
also if you're growing, because as you're growing, your security requirements change.
So when I was doing that review about how do we host
Shiny apps securely, that was in the security world of a small startup that might not make it.
Now Secure is like we have a billion dollar valuation, we're in Forbes,
we're a much, much bigger target than we were. So our security requirements have changed
dramatically. The nice thing about buying software is that your vendor has other clients, has built
these products for clients that have big company problems. So if you're a small company, you buy
these things, you might look at it and be like, well, I don't need that, I don't need that,
I don't need that. But as you grow, suddenly you discover you need all of those things.
And then the thing about growth is that at some point you start being limited by people and not
money. So it takes maybe six months or something to hire and onboard a new DevOps person,
and we can't just hire 20 of them all at once. So right now, we're really
grateful for any opportunity where we can spend licensing money to avoid development work,
because we have tons of development work that is in our core business that there are no vendors
for. So anything that we can do where we're able to basically say, I'm going to put licensing money
onto this problem helps us grow, because we can just basically just keep giving our vendor more
cash for more licenses and support. And for the most part, the support works itself out,
relative to if we were trying to build these things ourselves.
So our Studio Server or Studio Workbench is a good case study of this. So when we first
implemented this, it was for mostly remote R development. We were a pretty much universal R
team on our stuff. So we wanted something where it was giving people more compute power, giving
them a remote environment so that we knew that the data was location safe.
And so it could be controlled and audited, and you can shut people's access off, stuff like that.
But after we bought that system and started putting it together, so we could have basically
built this remote environment with a number of open source tools. We could have used the
open source RStudio. We could have used just a server with a terminal. There's
tons of different ways we could have done this that would have been cheaper in the short term
for it. But basically, after we bought RStudio Server, they keep working on it,
and it kept getting better. So a lot of these things that when we were first
thinking about it were either not at all security requirements or were things that were on our
nice-to-have list. At some point in our growth, maybe we were selling
something to a client, they would have some questions about how is your data science
environment authenticated? And it would be something where I was like,
if you're authenticating in way A, we're not interested if you're authenticating in way B,
that'll pass our audit of your work. And so there were many times where basically,
because we had bought the system and basically just kept getting these patches and updates every
time we just did the little, there's a new release, let's just spend two minutes
pseudo-installing the new release. We got those things. They weren't free,
but they didn't require any work. We didn't have to do some urgent sprint to get those out of the
box. The thing had kept accumulating features over time. And we've sold product
based on that. So it's something where I think this is something that's really underrated about
buying software. It's just that you shouldn't think of it in terms of building a short-term
thing and whether it's more or less expensive to buy or build. You should think about it like,
how do we want to spend the money and commit the people to maintain the system that we build
forever? Or do we want to pay somebody else to maintain the system that we do forever?
And I think unless your business, unless the thing is actually really, really core to your
company, like you're the best in the world at that thing, usually you should try hard to buy things.
And then the other one is that in addition to this, going back to that kind of developer
experience stuff, that they're also adding developer experience things all the time as
well. This isn't true. This is an RStudio hosted event. So that's part of why I'm talking about
these RStudio things. But I think this is true of really any vendor that you're doing. Usually,
if you trust that vendor, they're going to have more skilled people working on this problem than
you have in-house. So the product that you're going to get out of that is better. An example
here is that we moved several teams to be Python teams at Socure for a variety of hiring reasons.
And that was something, again, we kind of just had out of the box. We didn't need to.
Like it wasn't part of our initial purchasing decision really at all, but it was something
that we were able to add. And then that meant that we could just save a lot of development work,
but also kind of like centralize access to some of these things where it's like, you're like,
OK, this is the world that we're working on. We want kind of everybody to adhere by these things.
And we have some examples where at least for many different groups of people, it was successful.
So those are my three principles. So basically, my advice for this,
and this is, again, like there's not very much here about like you need to have this
technical setup. I can answer questions about that if it's helpful, although I think probably
there are usually better people to answer that. But I do think that this is kind of like an
organizational social thing to a lot of degrees. So like work hard at like developing a relationship
with your security teams where you all feel like you're on the same team. Try to set up childproof
environments or maybe like data science proof environments or whatever. Think about developer
experience as a security problem. Like if they're not at odds with each other, it's not like pick
security or convenience. Like you actually need your secure systems to be convenient for them to
be successful. And then last, like try hard to buy things. And there are good economic reasons
why the one you buy is going to be better than the one you build. And then lastly, we are hiring in
huge numbers. We have a lot of people who are dedicated to our developers as well as many
dedicated Python developers and some people who do both. So if you would like to hear more about
this, if fraud is an area that you're interested in, please feel free to reach out. My information
is here. I'm also on the LinkedIn group. Thank you very much. Thank you so much, Gordon. That
was awesome. I feel like that is so valuable for so many different industries right now. I'm
thinking of a lot of conversations I've had with customers in the past who are kind of
like selling even the idea of data science internally to their teams, where those points
are really relevant there. Just a reminder, if people have questions, you can use the Zoom chat
here as well. But there's also a Slido link where you can ask anonymous questions. And Gordon, one
that has been upvoted is, how did you communicate R packages to your security team? Oh, you might
be muted. So like what an R package is, or you mean like external R packages?
Probably external ones. Yeah, I think it's just probably coming. I've heard this from a few
different teams before as well. But if someone doesn't know really what R is, how do you explain
the idea of packages? Yeah, so I mean, I think like packages are like you could sort of think
about it like, I mean, JavaScript libraries are the same. So the way I sort of think about it
from a security perspective, and this is kind of like another way where having a robust like
internal package is really helpful. Because like, I feel like I'm able to make decisions about
whether a package should be included in our work in a way that other data scientists are not,
because I've sort of done a fair amount of just like package development. So I kind of know,
I can look at packages and be like, how good is this package? Like how solid is its development?
Or like, who developed it, right? Like, so if you're like, I'm much more likely to trust packages
that are maintained by, you know, a professional, like somebody whose job it is to maintain that,
and one that's that's ad hoc, I'm much more likely to trust ones that are popular than ones
that aren't. So if you're kind of like exposing, like have an internal package that you're working
on, that like does almost everything that people need it to do, you'll be able to make that
decision of just like, I'm not going to take on that dependency. I'm going to do that in
base R, you do the packages that I already use. And so that's one piece of it. The other piece
is just of like, this is kind of like articulating a threat model as part of that, where you're
just basically like, like, I think sometimes security people will worry more about an R
package than they will worry about a JavaScript library, even though the JavaScript library is
probably going to be hacked before the R one is, just because of surface area, like there's more,
more JavaScript people out there. And actually, like for putting something on NPM or something
like that, like the, the requirements of doing that are much lower than, than releasing something
to CRAN. Not that CRAN is not a security thing at all. But, but, but just that there are these
other places where we inject dependencies all the time. And so I would say like the main thing I
would sort of argue for there is like to try to get kind of like a fair assessment. Like how is
it that you use, how is it that we monitor whether somebody is using the right NPM packages or not?
Like, how do we, how do we know that those aren't malicious? Okay. Like we'll do the same thing.
But, but, but we, but if you don't, if you kind of don't get them to actually articulate what you're
worried about, you know, like, is it like, is it name, like there's something called name squatting,
which have, there's a big Python. It wasn't an attack, but it was a thing where you like have
a Python package that is like, if you just release a new version of the Python package,
you'll install that one, even if it's malicious. So, so there's sort of like name squatting,
like there's various different types of ways that like installing an external library can be
dangerous, but just writing down like what particular ways are we worried about? And then
figuring out how your thing matches or doesn't match. And there's a lot of different ways you
can do that. Like having a internal, like air-gapped package repository, a lot of different
ways you can do that. But, but you just kind of want to make sure that you're not doing this thing
where it's like, because it's like a language that you don't relate with all the, like, it's
impossible for people to imagine building a web application without NPM. Right. So that's the same
for R, right. So I'd say finding like that analogy of just like what these things are and how they
work is helpful. Thank you. I see there's one other question on Slido that was anonymous. How
do you deal with a security team that has less knowledge on best practice than the data science
team? Like the security, probably, like the security side, like if you're having something
where the, you don't trust your security engineers to have super good ideas. I haven't ever been in
that situation. So I don't know. The security people, especially at Secure, are very, very good.
But I would say that, like, you have to meet people where they're at, right. And people have
power within organizations and you just have to deal with that power. So I think it's,
so I think, like, not getting frustrated, right, and not, like, as soon as you start talking to
somebody who has power over a system, as though they're an idiot, right, you've lost, you're done,
right, you're not going to make any progress with that. So you need to, like, look at their sort of
work, look at their stuff, and try to understand it in a sympathetic way, right. And one of the
tools that I do a lot is I kind of like, you know, like repeating the same thing over and over,
you know, like repeating things back to people is helpful to just be like, okay,
what's the most charitable way that I can say back to you my understanding of this.
And then, like, you can sort of take that and sort of, like, write down, like, okay, here's,
here's what we wrote down as, like, this is that requirement, this is why we have it,
right, this is the motivation for it, get kind of broad agreement on that. And then sort of,
like, move forward, right, you're like, this, given that this kind of, like, fulfills those
things. But yeah, like, you can't, you can't treat people like, like, they're, they're dumb.
Because, because it just, that's, that's, again, kind of that bad place where you're, you're,
like, you're not, like, as soon as people stop trusting each other, like, you're going to ask
for something that's totally reasonable in six months, and they're just going to say,
man, like, that jerk, I'm gonna say no right away, right? There's a lot of discretion in
these things. And I guess the thing I did have experience with that is, like, dealing with,
I used to be a lawyer, and I used to deal with, like, administrator, like, government administrators.
And that's kind of like a similar thing, where you're like, oh, man, this is, it's so stupid,
I have to file this in triplicate. But if I make a big fuss about filing it in triplicate, I'm gonna
have to do three other things. So, like, so you want to kind of, like, try to build that
relationship. And then over time, if you do have that relationship, it's easier to kind of, like,
educate and bring in other resources about how to do it.
Thank you. I think that's such a good lesson in communication, in general, and, like, thinking
about, like, even when you're sharing visualizations with, like, people from the business as well.
I'm checking the chat to see if there's any other questions.
Kevin, I see you asked a question, which may have been answered, but want to make sure that
I get to that as well. Do you want to provide any additional context?
Yeah, of course. So, yeah, other than, I guess, the RStudio Connect that you were using, how else,
what were other tools that you were using for, like, leveraging with RStudio to help with your
goals with security? Those are the two main ones. We also do have RStudio Package Manager,
which we use. I wouldn't say we do anything particularly interesting with it, but it's
useful. I've had a good experience with all of those. These aren't the only tools that we use,
and these aren't the only sort of layers of security. Like, there's this idea called defense
in depth with security, as you want, like, just many, many layers. But we do use both of those,
and I've been very happy with them. Does that answer your question?
I think so, yes. Thank you.
I just want to open it up to anyone who was on and wants to ask a question live as well,
if there's anything that you're still wondering or anything else you're hoping to get out of
session today.
I'm also wondering which external package that you're using most right now.
Oh, like external, like, to just, like, another, like, R package?
I don't know. That's a tough question. I did use, like, so pins was one that I used a lot,
and this was kind of something that we stopped doing. We have another thing, but there's this
period of time where we had a really urgent data storage change that we needed to make,
and the data storage project was late. And so we ended up using kind of, like, pins in our
Studio Connect to kind of, like, be a little, like, stopgap until we got the real solution.
And so that's something that does, like, I do, I'm such a fan of pins. It's so simple that it's,
just having something where you're just able to, like, you know, send a file, like, have it be,
like, controlled somewhere, like, have it on S3, and just have it come back and cached,
and it's pretty nice.
Cool. Tatsu, I see that you unmuted, so I'm taking that as raising your hand.
Oh, no. I didn't even realize that I unmuted. I actually have to drop out, Gordon. That was a
fantastic presentation, and thanks for educating us. I really appreciate it, and I kind of wasn't
sure what I was getting into, but I'm sure glad that I was here, so thanks.
Great.